Consolidation distributed deployment docs and add architecture overview (#523)
restatedev/documentation: docs/references/architecture.mdx

### Distributed Log a.k.a Bifrost
Restate uses a distributed log, called Bifrost, to durably record all events in the system before acting on them, similar to the function of a write-ahead log (WAL) in a database system.
The design of Bifrost is based on the idea of a virtual consensus, as described in the [Delos paper](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/osdi20-balakrishnan.pdf).
The consensus algorithm powering Bifrost is based on [Flexible Paxos](https://fpaxos.github.io/).

To support scale-out operations, Restate splits the services key-space across multiple partitions, backed by logs. Currently, we map one partition to one log, though this relationship may change in the future. Thus you will see references to both partition ids and log ids, depending on context, so be aware that these are distinct concepts even if they might be the same value.

### Processors

The Processors (also called Partition Processors) receive invocations, process events from the durable log, and interact with the services/functions containing the application/workflow logic. The Processors encapsulate the state machines for durable execution and invocation life-cycles.

> The Processors maintain the “state of the world” which is derived from the events in the log. That state describes what invocations are ongoing, what is in the journal of each invocation, futures/promises, and the actual state of virtual objects. This state can be thought of as a materialized view that is deterministically derived from the log. The state is stored in RocksDB and periodically snapshotted (to persistent volume or object store), to bound the number of events to re-apply during a failure-recovery-catchup cycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Processors maintain the “state of the world” which is derived from the events in the log. That state describes what invocations are ongoing, what is in the journal of each invocation, futures/promises, and the actual state of virtual objects. This state can be thought of as a materialized view that is deterministically derived from the log. The state is stored in RocksDB and periodically snapshotted to an object store, to bound the number of events to re-apply during a failure-recovery-catchup cycle.
```

## Nodes and roles

> You'll see many mentions of the terms server and node throughout this documentation. Generally, we use the term "server" to refer to a running instance of the `restate-server` binary, although in some instances this might also refer to the entire Restate cluster which acts as a single entity. This binary can host multiple functions. When you start a single-node Restate server, for example when doing some local development or testing, you are hosting all the essential features in a single process. These include accepting incoming requests, durably recording events, processing work (delegating invocations to services, handling key-value operations), as well as maintaining metadata used internally by the system.

Reviewer: Instead of "single-node Restate server" maybe just "Restate server"? Otherwise, people might wonder whether there exists a multi-node Restate server.

> You'll see many mentions of the terms server and node throughout this documentation. Generally, we use the term "server" to refer to a running instance of the `restate-server` binary, although in some instances this might also refer to the entire Restate cluster which acts as a single entity. This binary can host multiple functions. When you start a single-node Restate server, for example when doing some local development or testing, you are hosting all the essential features in a single process. These include accepting incoming requests, durably recording events, processing work (delegating invocations to services, handling key-value operations), as well as maintaining metadata used internally by the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see many mentions of the terms server and node throughout this documentation. Generally, we use the term "server" to refer to a running instance of the `restate-server` binary. This binary can host multiple functions. When you start a single-node Restate server, for example when doing some local development or testing, you are hosting all the essential features in a single process. These include accepting incoming requests, durably recording events, processing work (delegating invocations to services, handling key-value operations), as well as maintaining metadata used internally by the system.
```

I would understand Restate cluster as multiple nodes/servers.

At its simplest, running a cluster is not that different - multiple nodes cooperate to share the responsibilities we mentioned earlier. This is accomplished by having multiple copies of the server process running on separate machines, although it is possible to create test clusters on a single machine. **Nodes** are therefore distinct instances of the Restate server within a cluster.

Restate clusters are designed to scale out in support of large deployments. As you add more machines, it becomes wasteful to replicate all the functionality across all the machines in a cluster, since not all features need to scale out at the same rate. **Roles** control which features run on any given node, enabling specialization within the cluster.

Here is an overview of the different roles that can run on a node:

> <img alt={"Restate Node internal architecture"} src={"/img/architecture/node_internal_architecture.png"}/>

Reviewer: Note to myself: Add the metadata-server role.

- Metadata server: the source of truth for cluster-wide information
- Ingress: the entry point for external requests
- Log server: responsible for durably persisting the log
- Worker: houses the partition processors

> ## Metadata server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metadata store
```

> The Restate metadata store is part of the control plane and is the internal source of truth for node membership and responsibilities. It is essential to the correctness of the overall system: in a cluster this service enables distributed consensus about other components' configuration. All nodes in a Restate cluster must be able to access the metadata service, though not all members of the cluster need to be part of hosting it. Restate includes a built-in Raft-based metadata store which is hosted on all nodes running the `metadata-server` role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Restate metadata store is part of the control plane and is the internal source of truth for node membership and responsibilities. It is essential to the correctness of the overall system: In a cluster this service enables distributed consensus about other components' configuration. All nodes in a Restate cluster must be able to access the metadata store, though not all members of the cluster need to be part of hosting it. Restate includes a built-in Raft-based metadata store which is hosted on all nodes running the `metadata-server` role.
```

The metadata store is designed to support relatively low volumes of read and write operations (at least compared to other parts of Restate), with the highest level of integrity and availability.

[//]: # (For some weird reason this shifts to the right if I use two hashtags)
<h2>Ingress</h2>

External requests enter the Restate cluster via the HTTP ingress component, which runs on nodes assigned the `http-ingress` role. Compared to other roles, the HTTP ingress role does not involve long-lived state and it can move around relatively freely, since it only handles ongoing client connections.

<Admonition type="info" title={"Fine-grained ingress role"}>
    The fine-grained `http-ingress` role is a new addition in Restate 1.2. For backwards-compatibility, nodes running the `worker` role will continue to run the ingress function in version 1.2.
</Admonition>

## Log servers

> Log server nodes running the `log-server` role are responsible for durably persisting the log. If the log is the equivalent of a WAL, then partition stores are the materializations that enable efficient reads of the events (invocation journals, key-value data) that have been recorded. Depending on the configured **log replication** requirements, Restate will allocate multiple log servers to persist a given log, and this will change over time to support maintenance and resizing of the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log server nodes running the `log-server` role are responsible for durably persisting the log. If the log is the equivalent of a WAL, then partition stores are the materializations that enable efficient reads of the events (invocation journals, key-value data) that have been recorded. Depending on the configured **log replication** requirements, Restate will replicate log records to multiple log servers to persist a given log, and this will change over time to support maintenance and resizing of the cluster.
```
